Welcome to Thoughts on the Market. I'm
Mike Wilson, Morgan Stanley CIO and
Chief US Equity Strategist.
Today in the podcast, I'll be discussing
my views on the new Fed Chair [music]
and how to interpret his FOMC meeting
last week.
It's Monday, June 22nd at 11:30 a.m. in
New York. So, let's get after it.
I want to spend today on what I think is
one of the more important market events
of the year so far.
Kevin Warsh's first Fed meeting as the
Chair.
Specifically, he's trying to fortify
credibility at a very delicate moment.
The economy is stronger than many
expected, inflation is still running
above target, and markets have become
accustomed to central banks telling them
exactly what to think.
Back in February when Warsh was
nominated, I argued that this was the
right choice if the goal was to lift
market credibility.
At that time, precious metals were
rising parabolically.
To me, that was a bad signal that
markets were questioning whether policy
makers could really run the economy hot
without creating a disorderly move in
the dollar or broader inflation problem.
Since Warsh's nomination, the S&P 500 to
gold ratio is up close to 40%, and I
view that as a powerful vote of
confidence from the markets.
It suggests investors are giving Warsh
the benefit of the doubt
that he can shake up the Fed, reduce
reliance on the balance sheet as a
policy tool, and solidify discipline
that gives the administration some
breathing room.
But, here's the catch.
Enhancing credibility is not always
painless.
In fact, credibility must be earned by
doing something markets don't
immediately like.
And last week had some of that flavor.
Stocks weakened, the yield curve bear
flattened, dollar strengthened, and
precious metals sold off.
From my perspective, that's not a failed
first meeting. That's a good and
necessary first step.
What stood out to me most was Warsh's
emphasis on the inflation mandate.
He made it very clear that the Fed's
primary responsibility is price
stability, not managing every wiggle in
the labor market, not smoothing every
risk asset drawdown, and not
hand-holding investors through every
data point.
And frankly, after 5 years of missing
the inflation target, that message was
overdue.
The stronger economy and improving
private payroll data give the Fed room
to lean into that message.
I don't think this means the Fed's about
to hike rates immediately or even
necessarily this year, but it does mean
the reaction function has changed, and
markets do not like uncertainty around
the Fed path.
The other major shift was communication.
War should appears to be moving away
from excessive forward guidance, and I
think that's a very healthy development.
For years, I've argued that the Fed
became too influential in shaping not
only market behavior, but also how
investors interpret the data.
When markets are only trying to guess
what the Fed will say next, the Fed
loses the value of market prices as an
independent signal. That's backwards.
Markets should be reacting to incoming
information, and the Fed should be
learning from those reactions, not vice
versa.
A little less Fed hand-holding may be
uncomfortable, but ironically, it's
necessary to get to a more stable place.
Investors may not like it in the short
term, but the system works better when
market prices are less impeded by policy
manipulation.
The wisdom of crowds is often better
than the wisdom of committees.
The near-term risk for equities is not
rate hikes or even uncertainty. It's
liquidity. Balance sheet support is
already starting to fade. The reserve
management program is down roughly 75%
from its peak. Treasury buybacks have
been reduced by 50%, and at the same
time, lending growth is accelerating
because the real economy is using more
capital.
That combination means liquidity is
tightening, and our work suggests that
that could remain a headwind for stocks
into July.
Bottom line, the market may test
Washington's resolve. That's what
markets do. The key question is whether
the Fed tolerates some short-term pain
in order to strengthen longer-term
credibility.
My guess is that it tries to do exactly
that until funding markets, credit
markets, or bond volatility forces its
hand to add more liquidity and loosen
financial conditions again.
That argues for choppy and even
corrected price action in equity markets
in the near term until the earnings-led
bull market has its next leg higher.
Thanks for tuning in. Hope you found it
informative and useful. Let us know what
you think by leaving us a review. And if
you find "Thoughts on the Market"
worthwhile, tell a friend or colleague
to try it out.
>> The preceding content is informational
only and based on information available
when created. It is not an offer or
solicitation, nor is it tax or legal
advice. It does not consider your
financial circumstances and objectives
and may not be suitable for you.